DOCSP-24543 Enterprise Authentication Mechanisms (#39)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/enterprise-authentication.txt

====================================
Enterprise Authentication Mechanisms
====================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to authenticate with MongoDB using the
**authentication mechanisms** available only in the {+mongo-enterprise+}.
Authentication mechanisms are processes by which the driver and server confirm
the identity of a client to ensure security before connecting.

You can use the following authentication mechanisms with the latest version of
{+mongo-enterprise+}.

- :ref:`csharp-kerberos`
- :ref:`csharp-LDAP`

To authenticate using another mechanism, see the

> :ref:`Authentication Mechanisms guide <csharp-authentication-mechanisms>`. For

Reviewer: Same suggestion here as above

more information on establishing a connection to your MongoDB cluster, see the
:ref:`csharp-connect-to-mongodb`.

Specify an Authentication Mechanism
-----------------------------------

You can specify your authentication mechanism and credentials when connecting to
MongoDB using either of the following methods:

- A **connection string**, also known as a **connection URI**, which is a string
  that tells the driver how to connect to a MongoDB deployment and how to behave while
  connected.

- A factory method for the supported authentication mechanism, contained in the 
  ``MongoCredential`` class.
.. _csharp-kerberos:

> GSSAPI/Kerberos

Reviewer: Issue: It feels like "GSSAPI/Kerberos" and "LDAP" are sub-topics of "Specify an Authentication Mechanism"--or at least that they shouldn't be on the same heading level.

Suggestion: Rather than bumping GSSAPI and LDAP in to the third level, what if we removed "Specify an Authentication Mechanism" and left the other two headings where they are? I'm not sure we need to talk about what the connection URI and MongoClientSettings are every time we refer to them.

Author: Removed the "Specify an Authentication Mechanism" header and left the text that was under it in the overview section

> GSSAPI/Kerberos

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticate with GSSAPI/Kerberos
```

---------------

> The Generic Security Services API (``GSSAPI``) authentication mechanism allows the 

Reviewer: Issue: "GSSAPI" is a technical term but not a bit of code as far as I can tell

```suggestion
The Generic Security Services API (GSSAPI) authentication mechanism allows the 
```

user to authenticate to a Kerberos service using the user's principal name.

The following examples specify the authentication mechanism using the following
placeholders:

> - ``<username>``: Your URL-encoded principal name, e.g. "username%40REALM.ME"

Reviewer: Issue: [Try to avoid "e.g."](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/general-term-guidelines/avoid-obscure-words/) (this trips me up too)

Suggestion: 
```suggestion
- ``<username>``: Your URL-encoded principal name; for example, "username%40REALM.ME"
```

> - ``<username>``: Your URL-encoded principal name, e.g. "username%40REALM.ME"

Reviewer: Is there a resource we can link inline here about URL encoding? Users probably don't know how to do this off the tops of their heads (I certainly don't).

Author: Linked to a wiki page

- ``<password>``: Your Kerberos user's password
- ``<hostname>``: The network address of your MongoDB server, accessible by your client

Select the :guilabel:`Connection String` or :guilabel:`MongoCredential` tab to

> see the corresponding syntax for specifying the ``GSSAPI/Kerberos`` authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see the corresponding syntax for specifying GSSAPI/Kerberos authentication
```

mechanism:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connection-string

      .. code-block:: csharp

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI");

   .. tab:: MongoCredential
      :tabid: mongo-credential

      .. code-block:: csharp
         :emphasize-lines: 1

         var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
         var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>          settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         settings.Credential = credential;
```

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

> .. tip:: Omit Password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip:: Omitting the Password
```

   You can omit the password if one of the following are true:

   - On Windows, the process owner running the application is the same as the
     user needing authentication.

>    - ON Linux, the user has initialized their keytab via ``kinit username@REALM.COM``.

Reviewer: Is "REALM.COM" all caps for a reason?

```suggestion
   - On Linux, the user has initialized their keytab via ``kinit username@realm.com``.
```

Author: It looks like that's [convention](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E21455_01/common/tutorials/kerberos_principal.html) for Kerberos realm names.

  
Additional Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can specify additional properties to your authentication mechanism using a
> connection string, or a factory method in the ``MongoCredential`` class.

Reviewer: Issue: "additional properties to your authentication mechanism" doesn't sound quite right to me. Are we passing more information about how to authenticate? Something else? Feel free to reword my suggestion

Suggestion: 
```suggestion
You can specify additional properties of the authentication mechanism using the
connection string or a factory method in the ``MongoCredential`` class.
```

Author: Reworded. Let me know if it makes more sense now.

> - Fully qualified domain name

Reviewer: Issue: The list elements kind of get lost with all the text and code samples.

Suggestion: Change to third-level headings (or something else?)

Author: Agreed, I think the style guide mentions trying to avoid 3rd level headings, but I also think that's the best option in this case.

  The following example shows how to use the DNS server to retrieve the fully
  qualified domain name of the host:
  
  .. tabs::
  
     .. tab:: Connection String
        :tabid: connection-string
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
  
           var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI&authMechanismProperties=CANONICALIZE_HOSTNAME:true");
  
     .. tab:: MongoCredential
        :tabid: mongo-credential
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
           :emphasize-lines: 1, 2
  
           var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
           credential = credential.WithMechanismProperty("CANONICALIZE_HOST_NAME", "true");
           
           var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>            settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           settings.Credential = credential;
```

           var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

- Realm

  The following example shows how to specify the user's realm when it is different
  from the service's realm:
  
  .. tabs::
  
     .. tab:: Connection String
        :tabid: connection-string
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
  
           var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI&authMechanismProperties=REALM:<user's realm>");
  
     .. tab:: MongoCredential
        :tabid: mongo-credential
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
           :emphasize-lines: 1, 2
  
           var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
           credential = credential.WithMechanismProperty("REALM", "<user's realm>");
           
           var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>            settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           settings.Credential = credential;
```

           var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

- Service name

  The following example shows how to specify the service name when it is not the
  default ``mongodb``:
  
  .. tabs::
  
     .. tab:: Connection String
        :tabid: connection-string
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
  
           var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI&authMechanismProperties=SERVICE_NAME:<service name>");
  
     .. tab:: MongoCredential
        :tabid: mongo-credential
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
           :emphasize-lines: 1, 2
  
           var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
           credential = credential.WithMechanismProperty("SERVICE_NAME", "<service name>");
           
           var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>            settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           settings.Credential = credential;
```

           var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

- Multiple properties
  
  The following example shows how to specify multiple authentication mechanism
  properties:

  .. tabs::
  
     .. tab:: Connection String
        :tabid: connection-string
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
  
           var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI&authMechanismProperties=SERVICE_NAME:<service name>,REALM:<user's realm>");
  
     .. tab:: MongoCredential
        :tabid: mongo-credential
  
        .. code-block:: csharp
           :emphasize-lines: 2, 3
  
           var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
           credential = credential.WithMechanismProperty("REALM", "<user's realm>")
               .WithMechanismProperty("SERVICE_NAME", "<service name>");
           
           var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>            settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           settings.Credential = credential;
```

           var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

.. _csharp-LDAP:

> LDAP (PLAIN)

Reviewer: Q: Is it common to write "PLAIN" in all caps? (Also, is there another kind of LDAP such that we need to disambiguate here?)

Edit: I see in the code that we use "PLAIN" to indicate LDAP. Would it make more sense to make "LDAP" the heading and then explain later, as you did, why we use "PLAIN" to signify that?

Author: I think I could go either way on this. In the original docs, as well as in Node and Java it's specified as LDAP (PLAIN), so I lean a little more that direction for consistency's sake, but if you feel strongly that it's better to remove PLAIN from the header I'm okay with it

Reviewer: Gotcha. We should definitely follow the other docs.

------------

You can authenticate to a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) server 

> using your directory server username and password.

Reviewer: Issue: Compound modifier

```suggestion
using your directory-server username and password.
```

The following examples specify the authentication mechanism using the following
placeholders:

- ``<username>``: Your LDAP username
- ``<password>``: Your LDAP password
- ``<hostname>``: The network address of your MongoDB server, accessible by your client

Select the :guilabel:`Connection String` or :guilabel:`MongoCredential` tab to

> see the corresponding syntax for specifying the ``LDAP/`` authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see the corresponding syntax for specifying the LDAP authentication
```

mechanism:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connection-string

      .. code-block:: csharp

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authSource=$external&authMechanism=PLAIN");

   .. tab:: MongoCredential
      :tabid: mongo-credential

      .. code-block:: csharp
         :emphasize-lines: 1

         var credential = MongoCredential.CreatePlainCredential("$external", "<username>", "<password>");
         var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");

>          settings.Credential = credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         settings.Credential = credential;
```

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

      .. tip::

         The method refers to ``PLAIN`` instead of ``LDAP`` since it

>          authenticates using the `PLAIN Simple Authentication and Security Layer
>          (SASL) defined in RFC-4616 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4616>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         authenticates using the PLAIN Simple Authentication and Security Layer
         (SASL) defined in `RFC-4616 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4616>`_.
```

====================================
Enterprise Authentication Mechanisms
====================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to authenticate with MongoDB using the
**authentication mechanisms** available only in the {+mongo-enterprise+}.
Authentication mechanisms are processes by which the driver and server confirm
the identity of a client to ensure security before connecting.

> You can use the following authentication mechanisms with the latest version of
> {+mongo-enterprise+}.

Reviewer: Issue: This sentence introduces the following links with "You can use the following authentication mechanisms...", but the two links start with "Authenticate with..." 

Suggestion: 
```suggestion
You can authenticate in the following ways with the latest version of
{+mongo-enterprise+}.
```
or:
```suggestion
You can authenticate against the latest version of
{+mongo-enterprise+} in the following ways:
```

- ``<password>``: Your Kerberos user's password
- ``<hostname>``: The network address of your MongoDB server, accessible by your client

Select the :guilabel:`Connection String` or :guilabel:`MongoCredential` tab to
see the corresponding syntax for specifying the GSSAPI/Kerberos authentication
mechanism:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connection-string

      .. code-block:: csharp

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://<username>:<password>@<hostname>/?authMechanism=GSSAPI");

   .. tab:: MongoCredential
      :tabid: mongo-credential

      .. code-block:: csharp
         :emphasize-lines: 1

         var credential = MongoCredential.CreateGssapiCredential("<username>", "<password>");
         var settings = MongoClientSettings.FromConnectionString("<connection string>");
         settings.Credential = credential;
         var mongoClient = new MongoClient(settings);

.. tip:: Omitting the Password

   You can omit the password if one of the following are true:

   - On Windows, the process owner running the application is the same as the
     user needing authentication.

>    - ON Linux, the user has initialized their keytab via ``kinit username@REALM.COM``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - On Linux, the user has initialized their keytab via ``kinit username@REALM.COM``.
```

  
Additional Properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can specify additional properties when specifying your authentication
mechanism, using the connection string or a factory method in the ``MongoCredential``

> class.

Reviewer: Is there a way to avoid using "specify/specifying" twice in one sentence? (I think we can lose the comma before "using" too)
